---
date: "2018-05-15"
title: "The Dream of Life"
---

> Let’s suppose that you were able every night to dream any dream you wanted to
> dream… And you would, naturally, as you began on this adventure of dreams, you
> would fulfill all your wishes. You would have every kind of pleasure during
> your sleep. And after several nights… you would say well that was pretty
> great. But now let's have a surprise. Let's have a dream which isn't under
> control, where something is gonna happen to me that I don't know what it's
> gonna be... Then you would get more and more adventurous and you would make
> further and further out gambles what you would dream and finally, you would
> dream where you are now.
>
> _-Allan Watts_

Dreams spark curiosity, fascination, confusion, and sometimes fear within our
minds. Our crucial perceptions of their meanings or significance are often
disregarded as unimportant and usually forgotten once we have woken. Everyday,
conscious life intercepts and derails our unconscious train of wisdom, which
could be used to explain or provide reasons for our actions and motives, if it
had not been abandoned.  Dreams help this unconscious world communicate with our
conscious mind, often through a one-way window. Sigmund Freud (1856-1939),
author of The Psychology of Love, and creator of psychoanalysis, realized the
power of dreams and began treating patients with various disorders or problems.
In the above-mentioned book, he analyses the peculiar dreams of a patient he
named Dora (for surreptitious reasons) to cure or heal her condition of
psychoneuroses. Although unsuccessful in completely curing Dora, due to her
abandonment of the program, his techniques and processes are clearly explained.
Although Freud's work has come under criticism due to his inexplicably
misogynistic character, he has inspired the growth of psychoanalysis and dream
analysis. But does this rudimentary form of psychology render any apprehensible
advice in the Twenty First Century, and is the potential amelioration of our
minds worth the risks of uncovering the depths of our unconscious? With these
questions in mind, one of my most peculiar dreams will be analyzed with the
purpose of discovering the valleys of the true unconscious.

Before beginning on this exciting task, it is important to explore my prior
relationship with dreams.  Since I could remember, my imagination has been a
major source of inspiration.  My childhood consisted of playing make-believe
games (due to my mother’s distrust in video gaming) with brothers and cousins,
in which I would always be the one to create the world or scenario that we would
pretend to be in.  I have always had a deeply captivating interest in fictional
or imagined worlds, many of which I drew inspiration from.  After becoming
enthralled with The Lord of The Rings Trilogy I came to the epiphany that
perhaps I too could turn an imagined world into a visceral experience.  This is
likely where my obsession of dreams began. They were the only way at that time
of adolescence to transfer my imagination into a visual world. I would obsess
over certain ideas in hopes that they would appear in my dreams. After this
failed, I was disappointed to discover that dreams were uncontrollable
occurrences during sleep that sometimes-reflected real events that were
distorted or were completely random.  I was further displeased when I could not
remember dreams, or did remember them but then soon forgot.  My interest died as
I aged, viewing my past obsession as juvenile and useless.

Years later, however, I had a nap and was conscious in my dream. I could control
the events happening in front of me. Unfortunately, I woke up soon after
achieving this consciousness. I discussed this peculiar event with my eldest
brother who told me about lucid dreaming, and how he has tried to induce it
within himself.  This new information reignited the flame of my nostalgic
compulsion.  All those years I had fantasized about the ability to control my
dreams and now I realized it was possible. After extensive research and
practice, I had a few lucid dreams. Again, however I was not fully satisfied. I
had achieved consciousness, but the power of my control was limited. My
unconscious mind remained the sole proprietor of my surroundings. At the time, I
could not grasp why. When dealing with dreams, Freud characterizes them as a
desire represented as fulfilled.  At first, he acknowledges the practical reason
of why certain events are present, then he divulges into their deeper,
metaphorical meanings that are derived from the desire that manifests itself
into our dreams. With this knowledge, I shall finally embark on an epic journey,
delving into the realm psychological discovery to uncover the submerged
complexities of my subconscious mind! Or to arrive at the conclusion that
Freudian psychoanalysis typically results in a different, less significant
realization...

During my Christmas break in my first year at The University of British Columbia
an incredibly strange dream came to me on the night before a skiing trip: I sat
in a tractor that was being driven by my friend Dominick’s grandfather. Dominick
was behind the tractor being pulled by a rope attached to the back. He stood on
a wake board and was wake boarding on a corn field like it was water. Once he
was done and it was my turn. I immediately fell for obvious reasons: its
impossible to wake board on corn.  We went back to the grandfather’s house which
was a makeshift wooden shelter in the forest. Here I found two old friends,
Robert, a dyslexic introvert, and Lowell, an extroverted sports fanatic who I
met through volleyball, quite ironically considering Lowell’s short and stubby
stature. Robert drove an ATV off the roof of the shelter, breaking it. To escape
the situation of explaining to the approaching grandfather, I followed Lowell
who had begun hiking up a dirt road behind me that ascended onto a hill ripe
with foliage.  Once I had arrived at the top I was greeted by several modern
native children along with Leo. They all stood on their own large rocks. They
began throwing smaller rocks at me. I dodged every single one. Lowell commanded
them to stop, not out of pity or friendship, but because I had dodged them. I
then stood on the rock of the initial rock thrower who was on the ground now. He
insulted me and was soon after mauled by a massive black bear. Chaos erupted and
everyone fled. I returned to the shelter to find numerous adults standing in a
line as if they were watching a volleyball game. One asked: “You want a coffee?”
I replied. “From where?” Tim’s they all answered in unison quite disturbingly.
Frustrated, I said what are you talking about were in the middle of nowhere,
there’s no Tim’s here! Yes, they answered, and pointed to the top of the hill I
had came from where a Tim Horton’s coffee shop lay on top. We began to walk
towards it. Just then my father woke me up and the dream ended. I was confused
as anyone would be after a dream of this caliber of irregularity. I brushed it
of as meaningless nonsense, but something wouldn’t let it slip from my mind. A
disturbed energy remained with me that day.

To understand the significance of this dream, I will adopt a Freudian approach
towards the dissection of its unconscious meaning. Initially, the dream is about
Dominick and the impossibility of me traversing a cornfield. It represents our
common interest of skiing and how he asked me to join him once, however it is
converted into something subconsciously impossible for me because I will never
go skiing with Dom in real life, due to many social and ideological differences
that we have. When I fall this further confirms this will never happen although
the desire to do so remains and is likely the only reason it showed up in this
dream. His grandfather, who shows up twice, represents another desire of mine
and that is to have known one of my own grandfathers. The act of towing the wake
boarder or water skier originates from stories of my grandfather doing exactly
this with my cousins, uncles, or aunts.  As for the shelter, it resembles myself
at the time I knew Daniel. The shelter reveals my low self-esteem and sensitive
character in its appearance: uncomfortable, flimsy, and frail. My first real
friend was Daniel, but once I grew up and he remained loyal to the childish
things that we once bonded over (that I began to think of as dumb), our
friendship dissipated. This is captured in his idiotic driving of the ATV, where
I left him to follow Lowell, who was also one of my initial friends. The rock
throwing is presumably the time in my life when I decided to go to elementary
school. The ethnicity of the throwers signifies the foreign or unfamiliar people
at school. The rocks were their attempts at bullying, which I either ignored or
avoided as is evident by my acrobatic dodging. Acceptance is later reached as I
stand on a rock myself. The bear is what I wish I had been at that time: feared,
ferocious, and tough, consequently avoiding many issues for myself, while
providing them for others. With this as a possibility, I chose not to accept
that path and ran from the bear back to something familiar that was the shelter
or box that I would not leave until shown how.

Whether this was the right choice, to sacrifice my happiness based on moral
principle, it is difficult to say, however it did lead me to another
realization: Things change. The hill of rock throwers and black bears was
replaced with Tim Horton’s. The hill which once was the epitome of assimilation
or annihilation was replaced with coffee, which undoubtedly, is the substantive
source of my productivity. Additionally, the old, boring friends and
grandparents were replaced by adults who enjoyed things that I did (coffee). The
entire sequence after the bear attack is my life transitioning out of a vicious,
competitive hierarchy, back to a depressed, weak lifestyle, to a productive era
filled with similarly productive and agreeable people headed to a productive
place.

It is these realizations that we can use positively. When we wake up from a
dream we find ourselves in another dream. Although this dream is perceived as
reality, and is very unpredictable, it is still controlled by our subconscious
motives. We just have to realize them and transcribe them into rational thought
to be controlled and then the dream of life will become a little more lucid.

---

Thank you for reading my lengthy first blog post! This one will be very
different from future posts because I wanted to expand upon myself a little bit.
Thanks again and be sure to come back for more current events writing and
revisited events that have strangely left the media spotlight.
