# The Future of Journalism

With the rise of Donald Trump, Western media has been subjected to a hail storm
of criticism. Complete distrust of mainstream media is no longer the fringe
doctrine of eccentric outsiders. Now the term "fake news" is thrown around more
than hand grenades in a Syrian playground. To clear the tension, this
outrageously offensive and baseless comparison is not an attempt of edgy
provocation, but rather a transition into one of the most misreported civil wars
of the Twenty First Century. So much so, that even I, a moderate sceptic of
Republican ideology, am beginning to be swept into the river of the "fake news
movement." The sheer deception taking place is almost as baffling as the lack of
reporting on the lies that fuelled the deception in the first place. In this
battle of conflicting "facts" who is to be believed? The titans of the news
world, constantly executing the agenda of regime change, or the local and
independent journalists, grinding to fight against the giants of media culture
and their seemingly limitless power?

Eva Bartlett is an independent Canadian journalist who has committed years of
her life to on the ground research in Syria and Palestine. Her
anti-establishment journalism threatens many mainstream media outlets, who go
out of their way to create smear articles in an attempt to destroy her
credibility, legitimacy, and independent status. This status being the most
crucial point of attack as it is what makes her work so convincingly true. It is
her independent status that allows her to seek the truth because she is not
constrained by the interests of greater establishment media, and this is exactly
what she counter-attacks with.

In 2016, a clip from a United Nations press conference about the
misrepresentation of the Syrian crisis (full UN panel in links below) was
circulating through social media. This clip shows Eva Bartlett faced with a
decently critical question in which she replies, completely defacing the
journalist who asked it with a humiliating beat down of pure journalistic
superiority and experience, while simultaneously dismantling any potential
viewers entire perception of the war itself.

For those of you that are unaware of the eight year long civil war, here is a
somewhat biased summary to give this article some context:
https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2016/05/syria-civil-war-explained-160505084119966.html
Although
