---
date: "2018-07-23"
title: "The Future of Journalism"
---

With the rise of Donald Trump, Western media has been subjected to a hail storm
of criticism. Complete distrust of mainstream media is no longer the fringe
doctrine of eccentric outsiders. Now the term "fake news" is thrown around more
than hand grenades in a Syrian playground. To clear the tension, this
outrageously offensive and baseless comparison is not an attempt of prickled
provocation, but rather a transition into one of the most misreported civil wars
of the Twenty First Century. So much so, that even I, a moderate sceptic of
Republican ideology, am beginning to be swept into the river of the "fake news
movement." The sheer deception taking place is almost as baffling as the lack of
reporting on the lies that fuelled the deception in the first place. In this
battle of conflicting "facts" who is to be believed? The titans of the news
world, constantly executing the agenda of regime change, or the local and
independent journalists, grinding to fight against the giants of media culture
and their seemingly limitless power?

Eva Bartlett, an independent Canadian journalist who has committed years of to
on the ground research in Syria is taking a stand. Her anti-establishment
journalism threatens many mainstream media outlets, who go out of their way to
create smear articles in an attempt to destroy her credibility, legitimacy, and
independent status. This status being the most crucial point of attack as it is
what makes her work so convincingly true. It is her independent status that
allows her to seek the truth because she is not constrained by the interests of
greater establishment media, and this is exactly what she counter-attacks with.

[![Syria Video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/R6utDs1b_TU/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/R6utDs1b_TU)

In 2016, a clip from a United Nations press conference about the
misrepresentation of the Syrian crisis (full UN panel in links below) was
circulating through social media. This clip shows Eva Bartlett faced with a
decently critical question in which she replies, completely defacing the
journalist who asked it with a humiliating beat down of pure journalistic
superiority and experience. Simultaneously, she dismantling any pro-regime
change perspectives on the war. Since then, Bartlett has been extensively active
on issues in the Middle East, recently giving a speech at a RT Uk conference in
January, but exceeding her skillful research is her ability to expose massive
news corporation lies.

Criticism of Bartlett started as soon as she began to question the legitimacy of
a self proclaimed Syrian humanitarian organization called the White Helmets.
Despite the retaliatory smearing campaigns, Bartlett has bravely held her
ground, remaining steadfast against corporate media giants. Channel 4 News
released an interview with their golden boy anchor Krishnan Guru-Murthy
interviewing a group of armed militants in Syria. The interviewees were later
revealed to be Al-Nusra, not the moderate rebels they were labelled as. Channel
4 News apologized and removed the interview and then proceeded to make a smear
article intent on destroying Bartlett's independent credibility:
(https://www.channel4.com/news/factcheck/factcheck-eva-bartletts-claims-about-syrian-children).
After googling "Krishnan Guru Murthy Al Nusra Interview" all that shows up is
his dramatic failed interview with Robert Downey Junior. The only first page
evidence of this incredulous miss reporting is a twitter post from Bartlett,
further confirming that this is an under discussed issue.

This colossal mistake made by Channel 4 news is not what has shattered my
respect for the corporation. It is the immature way that they have handled the
criticism of their mistake. By creating the Bartlett smear article they have
displayed the behaviour found in a squabbling child that is unable to take
responsibility for their ignorant, inept, and misleading reporting.
